README.md, before:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paralympics/sdms-user-guide/master/docs/_img/ipc-emblem-centre.png" height="250px" alt="International Paralympic Committee Logo">
</p>

<h1 align="center">Sport Data Management System User Guide</h1>
<h2 align="center">Version A</h2>

This is the hopefully continuously evolving documentation for one of the International Paralympic Committee's applications, Sport Data Management System (SDMS). If you find a problem or there is something that you would like to change, please check out our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## What is SDMS?

As the name suggests SDMS is an application the IPC uses for the management of athlete data. It mainly comprises of the following tools:

- Athletes and guides registration in all World Para sports
- Full classification management
- Licence Management according to the seasonal IPC Licensing Programme
- IPC Athlete & Licence Cards
- World Para sports calendar including competition approvals & management of World Para sports officials
- Results Management
- Records Validation
- Calculation of the sport-specific rankings
- IPC Online Entry System
- IPC Team Uniform Inspection

## Getting Started

Dive right into learning about SDMS -> [start here](https://paralympics.github.io/sdms-user-guide/#/layout-and-functionalities/access)

<!--## Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing some minor issues with SDMS please check [Troubleshooting](https://paralympics.github.io/sdms-user-guide/#/help/troubleshooting) or [FAQs](https://paralympics.github.io/sdms-user-guide/#/help/faqs).-->

## Reading Documentation

You do not necessarily have to read the whole of this documentation in order to understand and effectively use SDMS but it would certainly help.

## Feedback

Find a bug or have a feature request for SDMS? Please file an [issue](https://github.com/paralympics/sdms-user-guide/issues)!

> Please read the documentation or search in the issues before you post so as to avoid duplicates.

## Technical Support

For technical support, please send an email to [sdmsadmin@paralympic.org](mailto:sdmsadmin@paralympic.org)

## Contributing

If you would like to help improve this documentation, please read up on our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) before making a pull request.

## Code of Conduct

You can read the code of conduct [here](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## License

Copyright (c) 2019 International Paralympic Committee

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this documentation and associated documentation files (the "Document"), to deal
in the Document without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Document, and to permit persons to whom the Document is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Document.

THE DOCUMENT IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE DOCUMENT OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
DOCUMENT.

## Credits

Powered by: [docsify](https://docsify.js.org)

Commit message:

Update README and License documentation
Removed version information from README user guide and simplified license text. Updated copyright year in LICENSE and improved image link and header formatting in cover page.

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
    <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/paralympics/sdms-user-guide/master/docs/_img/ipc-emblem-centre.png" height="250px" alt="International Paralympic Committee Logo">
</p>

<h1 align="center">Sport Data Management System User Guide</h1>

This is the hopefully continuously evolving documentation for one of the International Paralympic Committee's applications, Sport Data Management System (SDMS). If you find a problem or there is something that you would like to change, please check out our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## What is SDMS?

As the name suggests SDMS is an application the IPC uses for the management of athlete data. It mainly comprises of the following tools:

- Athletes and guides registration in all World Para sports
- Full classification management
- Licence Management according to the seasonal IPC Licensing Programme
- IPC Athlete & Licence Cards
- World Para sports calendar including competition approvals & management of World Para sports officials
- Results Management
- Records Validation
- Calculation of the sport-specific rankings
- IPC Online Entry System
- IPC Team Uniform Inspection

## Getting Started

Dive right into learning about SDMS -> [start here](https://paralympics.github.io/sdms-user-guide/#/layout-and-functionalities/access)

<!--## Troubleshooting

If you are experiencing some minor issues with SDMS please check [Troubleshooting](https://paralympics.github.io/sdms-user-guide/#/help/troubleshooting) or [FAQs](https://paralympics.github.io/sdms-user-guide/#/help/faqs).-->

## Reading Documentation

You do not necessarily have to read the whole of this documentation in order to understand and effectively use SDMS but it would certainly help.

## Feedback

Find a bug or have a feature request for SDMS? Please file an [issue](https://github.com/paralympics/sdms-user-guide/issues)!

> Please read the documentation or search in the issues before you post so as to avoid duplicates.

## Technical Support

For technical support, please send an email to [sdmsadmin@paralympic.org](mailto:sdmsadmin@paralympic.org)

## Contributing

If you would like to help improve this documentation, please read up on our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) before making a pull request.

## Code of Conduct

You can read the code of conduct [here](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)

## License

The license for this user guide can be read [here](LICENSE.md)

## Credits

Powered by: [docsify](https://docsify.js.org)
