docs/competition-management/approval-management.md, before:

# Approval Management

## World Para Athletics

Beginning in 2014, World Para Athletics implemented a process where NPCs could apply for their competitions to be approved and sanctioned in SDMS. NPCs first purchase a number of credits, which are then used to pay for the competition requests so that the requests are not held up by financial problems. The process is explained fully from an NPC point of view in the [World Para Athletics Competition Approval Guide](https://db.ipc-services.org/sdms/doc/info/2013_10_07_SDMS_AT_Guide_Competition_Approval.pdf), also available as the third link under Approval Management).

Competition requests in athletics are divided into two categories:

1. World Para athletics approved competitions: these competitions have World Para Athletics as their respective IF, and are designed for Paralympic athletes. As World Para Athletics fulfils an IF role, they charge a competition fee for each request to cover their costs of processing the application, appointing technical delegates, providing classification opportunities, etc.

2. IAAF/NF Endorsed competitions: these competitions have IAAF, the international association of athletics federation, as the responsible IF, either through IAAF directly or through the national athletics federation. If they provide competition opportunities for athletes with impairments, World Para Athletics can approve the results for use in the world rankings and in qualifying for major competitions. The fees associated with these competitions is therefore lower, and organised in packages – for updated information, see the section user guide.

World Para Swimming also introduced their own competition approval process from 2016 onwards. However, they only have one tier of approved competitions. The guide can be found at [World Para Swimming Competition Approval Guide](https://db.ipc-services.org/sdms/doc/info/2015_12_17_IPC_Swimming_Competition_Approval.pdf).

### NPC Credits

The credit applications are handled by the finance department once the NPC have completed the submission as described in the user guide, and can be approved in the same section as invoices from other SDMS modules. See [Invoices](license-management/invoices.md) for more information on invoice processing. The NPCs are allowed to use their credits to make requests once the invoice has been confirmed paid.

When an NPC user makes an application that will change the package level of an endorsed competition, a dialogue box appears asking them to confirm the automatic upgrade.

For book keeping purposes, invoices are generated by SDMS whenever credits are used by the application – e.g. to upgrade the competition package for endorsed competitions, or to pay the competition approval fee – even though the payment had already been made when credits were generated. These invoices only serve as a record of the service the credits have been used to pay for.

World Para Swimming does not use the credits system; instead individual invoices are issued whenever an NPC applies for a competition.

### Competition Requests

Once a request has been submitted and the credits deducted, sport officers can review the application and move it within the approval status flowchart. Only decisions on the competition status are announced within SDMS; NPCs can also submit expressions of interest to hold international classification, but the final decisions are communicated by the IPC Sport committee on our website.

If an NPC has selected an incorrect category (approved or endorsed) in their application, clicking the button _Change Category_ will move the application to the correct category. Credits associated with the application will be reimbursed or deducted.

Application status changes are shown at the top of the _Application Form_ tab. An example of an approved request is shown in Figure 6.1.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.1-competition-approval-status-npc.png" alt="Approval Status - NPCs">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.1: Approval Status - NPCs</figcaption>
</figure>

The possible statuses are:

- **New:** all newly submitted requests receive this status. If all data is correctly entered, a decision can be made on the request directly: it can be Approved or Not Approved.

- **Incomplete:** If data is not correctly entered, IPC change the status from New or Updated to Incomplete and ask the submitting organization to complete the request. A comment dialogue box will appear to input information for the NPCs to use when they will improve the application; this comment and the status will then be displayed at the top of the application form. As IPC now await a response from the organisers, they should not change the status further before they receive new information.

- **Updated:** This is the only status NPCs can change; when they submit an updated request previously said to be incomplete, SDMS automatically changes the status to Updated. The request then goes back to application review as if it had been newly submitted.

- **Approved:** After IPC are satisfied with the information submitted, through any number of update cycles, they can approve the competition. The local organisers can no longer change their data once the IPC have made the approval decision – this can only be done by IPC officers. Once the competition has been approved, it should also be uploaded to the website to inform the public of its existence.

- **Not Approved:** IPC reserves the right not to approve competition requests for any reason. As with an incomplete application, a comment dialogue box appears to explain the reason for the decision. In the database, this resets the Level of Designation to nothing, and the competition should obviously not be uploaded to the website.

The figure below shows the _Approval Status_ tab that is only accessible to IPC Officers. This gives an overview of the approval status process.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.2-competition-approval-status-ipc.png" alt="Approval Status Screen - IPC Officers">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.2: Approval Status Screen - IPC Officers</figcaption>
</figure>

IPC can change all statuses – except to change back to New once the request has been reviewed. However, IPC users are recommended to follow the procedure outlined by the flowchart.

IPC officers can also delete a request, in which case the associated competition is also removed from the calendar, any invoices associated with the request is deleted, and any credits used in the request are reimbursed.

When an NPC submits a request, the competition is added to the SDMS calendar with the organiser information as supplied in the request. This information will be visible from the Calendar > Competition details page, as well as from the website for uploaded competitions.

If someone discovers the application has been placed in the wrong category, IPC users can move the competition between IAAF/NF Endorsed and IPC Approved categories with the _Change Category_ button. When clicked, a dialogue box appears asking the user to confirm the change and informing the user what will happen when the category is changed. SDMS then reimburses any credits spent on the previous application, deducts credits for the new application, and deletes category specific information.

The application form is optimised for web input, and may not be easy to read or print for hard copy purposes. Therefore, SDMS offers a button to **Print PDF Summary** of each application. NPCs are not required to send this PDF as documentation to IPC, as the PDF merely duplicates the information already sent through SDMS. The radio buttons and checkboxes are copied across as form boxes.

### International Classification Evaluation

Once an NPC has requested to host an IPC Approved competition, they may additionally go to the _Classification Request_ form to submit an Expression of Interest to host a classification opportunity. Following this submission, IPC can give their feedback on the proposed classification schedule and data by changing the _Approval Status_ from _New_ to _Approved_ or _Not Approved_.

## World Para Powerlifting

World Para Powerlifting (WPPO) have implemented a process through SDMS for NPCs and/or National Federations (NF) to apply for WPPO approved competitions. This system will also be used for NPCs/NFs to submit an expression of interest to host international classification and educational courses concurrently with the competition.

All applications for an approved competition must be fully completed and submitted to **WPPO at least three (3) months (ninety  \[90\] days) prior to the start of the competition** for the application to be considered.

### Submitting a Competition Request

To submit an approved competition request through SDMS, login to the application using your NPC/NF username and password. Follow this navigation path below: 

<p class="instructions">Competition Management -> Competition Approvals -> Powerlifting</p>

All applications made by an NPC/NF will appear on the *Competition Requests* page. To apply for the approval of a national competition, select *Add Request for Approval*.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.3-competition-approval-wppo-grid.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Grid">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.3: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Grid</figcaption>
</figure>

The next step will require the NPC/NF to provide information regarding the competition such as the mandatory fields of:

- Official Name
- Event Dates
- City
- Country
- Venue
- Organizer
- Contact Name
- Contact Email
- Phone Number
- Equipment Details (Brand and quantities)
- Estimated Numbers of Athletes
- Motivation for Hosting
- Hosting Experience
- Reasons of Host City Selection
- Entry Deadlines
- Invoice Details
- Official Verification

Please note, the system will not allow an NPC/NF to save the competition until all of the mandatory information has been input. When the NPC/NF has completed all of the mandatory fields (Yellow highlighted fields), click *Official Verification* to sign the application form. By default, the field contains the name of the NPC/NF responsible person. Once complete, submit the application by click *Save*. 

If an NPC/NF forgot to supply mandatory information in a field, the page will reload with the stored text but any files will need to be uploaded again. 

The NPC/NF must also upload:
- List of current technical officials
- Doping Information Form

Upon completion of the required information, when the competition is organised by a local organising committee (LOC) other than the NPC, the application must still be acknowledged and endorsed by the respective NPC.

<figure>
    <img src="_img/figures/6.4-competition-approval-wppo-form.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Form">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.4: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Form</figcaption>
</figure>

The NPC/NF can download the invoice by click the *Invoice PDF* tab, and they should complete the bank transfer to the IPC account.

WPPO will review the application to ensure all of the required information and document has been uploaded.

Approved national competitions have a fee of 100 EUR. A value-added tax (VAT) number may be required for some European countries. If your organisation is considered as a taxable person until Title III, articles 9-10 of the Council Directive 2006/112/EC, a VAT identification number is required. If your organisation is not considered as a taxable person, seven (7%) percent German VAT will be added to the invoice.

### Reviewing a Competition Application Status

An NPC/NF can check the status of their competition application request on the *Competition Requests* page (Competition Management -> Competition Approvals -> Powerlifting).

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.5-competition-approval-wppo-status.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Status">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.5: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Status</figcaption>
</figure>

The competition’s approval status will remain as *New* until WPPO has reviewed the application. If WPPO determine the application is complete, the approval status will appear as *Approved*; if it is incomplete and missing information, the approval status will be changed to *Incomplete* and a message appear in the application.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.6-competition-approval-wppo-incomplete-request.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Incomplete Request">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.6: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Incomplete Request</figcaption>
</figure>

Once the update has been made by the NPC/NF and WPPO accepts the application, the approval status will be appear as *Approved* and will be uploaded to the WPPO calendar.

Once the competition is approved, WPPO will appoint a Technical Delegate and the contact person will be information. Any additional appointments such as Classifiers or Educators will also be completed.

### Submitting an Expression of Interest to Host International Classification

As international classification may only take place at WPPO recognised competitions, the NPC/NF must first apply for the approval of the competition where the international classification will take place. Once an application has been made, the NPC/NF can then apply to host international classification. This can be done by selecting *Classification Request* next to the application form. This tab will only appear once the competition application has been created.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.7-competition-approval-wppo-international-classification.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - International Classification">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.7: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - International Classification</figcaption>
</figure>

The NPC/NF must add the required additional information to request international classification such as:
- Sport Class
- Estimated Number of Athletes to be Classified
- Arrival Date for Classification
- Classification Dates
- Departure Date for Classification
  
Please note, the system will not allow an NPC/NF to save the request until all of the mandatory information has been input.

### Submitting an Expression of Interest to Host Educational Courses

Hosting an approved competition provides an excellent opportunity to host educational courses for classifiers, coaches and/or technical officials concurrently. Once an application to host an approved competition has been made, the NPC/NF can then apply to host educational courses. This can be done by selecting *Course Request* next to the application form. This tab will only appear once the competition application has been created.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.8-competition-approval-wppo-educational-courses.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Educational Courses">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.8: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Educational Courses</figcaption>
</figure>

The NPC/NF must add the required additional information to request educational courses such as:
- Course Type
- Estimated Number of Participants by Course
- Arrival Date for Courses
- Course Dates
- Departure Date for Courses

Commit message:

Add information about WPPO world cups/invitational competitions to competition management

docs/competition-management/approval-management.md, after:

# Approval Management

## World Para Athletics

Beginning in 2014, World Para Athletics implemented a process where NPCs could apply for their competitions to be approved and sanctioned in SDMS. NPCs first purchase a number of credits, which are then used to pay for the competition requests so that the requests are not held up by financial problems. The process is explained fully from an NPC point of view in the [World Para Athletics Competition Approval Guide](https://db.ipc-services.org/sdms/doc/info/2013_10_07_SDMS_AT_Guide_Competition_Approval.pdf), also available as the third link under Approval Management).

Competition requests in athletics are divided into two categories:

1. World Para athletics approved competitions: these competitions have World Para Athletics as their respective IF, and are designed for Paralympic athletes. As World Para Athletics fulfils an IF role, they charge a competition fee for each request to cover their costs of processing the application, appointing technical delegates, providing classification opportunities, etc.

2. IAAF/NF Endorsed competitions: these competitions have IAAF, the international association of athletics federation, as the responsible IF, either through IAAF directly or through the national athletics federation. If they provide competition opportunities for athletes with impairments, World Para Athletics can approve the results for use in the world rankings and in qualifying for major competitions. The fees associated with these competitions is therefore lower, and organised in packages – for updated information, see the section user guide.

World Para Swimming also introduced their own competition approval process from 2016 onwards. However, they only have one tier of approved competitions. The guide can be found at [World Para Swimming Competition Approval Guide](https://db.ipc-services.org/sdms/doc/info/2015_12_17_IPC_Swimming_Competition_Approval.pdf).

### NPC Credits

The credit applications are handled by the finance department once the NPC have completed the submission as described in the user guide, and can be approved in the same section as invoices from other SDMS modules. See [Invoices](license-management/invoices.md) for more information on invoice processing. The NPCs are allowed to use their credits to make requests once the invoice has been confirmed paid.

When an NPC user makes an application that will change the package level of an endorsed competition, a dialogue box appears asking them to confirm the automatic upgrade.

For book keeping purposes, invoices are generated by SDMS whenever credits are used by the application – e.g. to upgrade the competition package for endorsed competitions, or to pay the competition approval fee – even though the payment had already been made when credits were generated. These invoices only serve as a record of the service the credits have been used to pay for.

World Para Swimming does not use the credits system; instead individual invoices are issued whenever an NPC applies for a competition.

### Competition Requests

Once a request has been submitted and the credits deducted, sport officers can review the application and move it within the approval status flowchart. Only decisions on the competition status are announced within SDMS; NPCs can also submit expressions of interest to hold international classification, but the final decisions are communicated by the IPC Sport committee on our website.

If an NPC has selected an incorrect category (approved or endorsed) in their application, clicking the button _Change Category_ will move the application to the correct category. Credits associated with the application will be reimbursed or deducted.

Application status changes are shown at the top of the _Application Form_ tab. An example of an approved request is shown in Figure 6.1.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.1-competition-approval-status-npc.png" alt="Approval Status - NPCs">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.1: Approval Status - NPCs</figcaption>
</figure>

The possible statuses are:

- **New:** all newly submitted requests receive this status. If all data is correctly entered, a decision can be made on the request directly: it can be Approved or Not Approved.

- **Incomplete:** If data is not correctly entered, IPC change the status from New or Updated to Incomplete and ask the submitting organization to complete the request. A comment dialogue box will appear to input information for the NPCs to use when they will improve the application; this comment and the status will then be displayed at the top of the application form. As IPC now await a response from the organisers, they should not change the status further before they receive new information.

- **Updated:** This is the only status NPCs can change; when they submit an updated request previously said to be incomplete, SDMS automatically changes the status to Updated. The request then goes back to application review as if it had been newly submitted.

- **Approved:** After IPC are satisfied with the information submitted, through any number of update cycles, they can approve the competition. The local organisers can no longer change their data once the IPC have made the approval decision – this can only be done by IPC officers. Once the competition has been approved, it should also be uploaded to the website to inform the public of its existence.

- **Not Approved:** IPC reserves the right not to approve competition requests for any reason. As with an incomplete application, a comment dialogue box appears to explain the reason for the decision. In the database, this resets the Level of Designation to nothing, and the competition should obviously not be uploaded to the website.

The figure below shows the _Approval Status_ tab that is only accessible to IPC Officers. This gives an overview of the approval status process.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.2-competition-approval-status-ipc.png" alt="Approval Status Screen - IPC Officers">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.2: Approval Status Screen - IPC Officers</figcaption>
</figure>

IPC can change all statuses – except to change back to New once the request has been reviewed. However, IPC users are recommended to follow the procedure outlined by the flowchart.

IPC officers can also delete a request, in which case the associated competition is also removed from the calendar, any invoices associated with the request is deleted, and any credits used in the request are reimbursed.

When an NPC submits a request, the competition is added to the SDMS calendar with the organiser information as supplied in the request. This information will be visible from the Calendar > Competition details page, as well as from the website for uploaded competitions.

If someone discovers the application has been placed in the wrong category, IPC users can move the competition between IAAF/NF Endorsed and IPC Approved categories with the _Change Category_ button. When clicked, a dialogue box appears asking the user to confirm the change and informing the user what will happen when the category is changed. SDMS then reimburses any credits spent on the previous application, deducts credits for the new application, and deletes category specific information.

The application form is optimised for web input, and may not be easy to read or print for hard copy purposes. Therefore, SDMS offers a button to **Print PDF Summary** of each application. NPCs are not required to send this PDF as documentation to IPC, as the PDF merely duplicates the information already sent through SDMS. The radio buttons and checkboxes are copied across as form boxes.

### International Classification Evaluation

Once an NPC has requested to host an IPC Approved competition, they may additionally go to the _Classification Request_ form to submit an Expression of Interest to host a classification opportunity. Following this submission, IPC can give their feedback on the proposed classification schedule and data by changing the _Approval Status_ from _New_ to _Approved_ or _Not Approved_.

## World Para Powerlifting

World Para Powerlifting (WPPO) have implemented a process through SDMS for NPCs and/or National Federations (NF) to apply for WPPO approved competitions(National, Invitational Competitions) and WPPO sanctioned World Cups. This system will also be used for NPCs/NFs to submit an expression of interest to host international classification and educational courses concurrently with the competition.

All applications for an approved competition must be fully completed and submitted to **WPPO at least three (3) months (ninety  \[90\] days) prior to the start of the competition** for the application to be considered.

**And for World Cup at least one (1) year (eighteen \[18\] months) prior to the start of the competition for the application to be considered.**

### Submitting a Competition Request

To submit an approved competition request through SDMS, login to the application using your NPC/NF username and password. Follow this navigation path below: 

<p class="instructions">Competition Management -> Competition Approvals -> Powerlifting</p>

All applications made by an NPC/NF will appear on the *Competition Requests* page. To apply for the approval of a national competition, select *Add Request for Approval*.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.3-competition-approval-wppo-grid.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Grid">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.3: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Grid</figcaption>
</figure>

The next step will require the NPC/NF to provide information regarding the competition such as the mandatory fields of:

- Official Name
- Event Dates
- City
- Country
- Venue
- Organizer
- Contact Name
- Contact Email
- Phone Number
- Equipment Details (Brand and quantities)
- Estimated Numbers of Athletes
- Motivation for Hosting
- Hosting Experience
- Reasons of Host City Selection
- Entry Deadlines
- Invoice Details
- Official Verification

Please note, the system will not allow an NPC/NF to save the competition until all of the mandatory information has been input. When the NPC/NF has completed all of the mandatory fields (Yellow highlighted fields), click *Official Verification* to sign the application form. By default, the field contains the name of the NPC/NF responsible person. Once complete, submit the application by click *Save*. 

If an NPC/NF forgot to supply mandatory information in a field, the page will reload with the stored text but any files will need to be uploaded again. 

The NPC/NF must also upload:
- List of current technical officials
- Doping Information Form

Upon completion of the required information, when the competition is organised by a local organising committee (LOC) other than the NPC, the application must still be acknowledged and endorsed by the respective NPC.

<figure>
    <img src="_img/figures/6.4-competition-approval-wppo-form.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Form">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.4: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Form</figcaption>
</figure>

The NPC/NF can download the invoice by click the *Invoice PDF* tab, and they should complete the bank transfer to the IPC account.

WPPO will review the application to ensure all of the required information and document has been uploaded.

Approved national competitions have a fee of 100 EUR. A value-added tax (VAT) number may be required for some European countries. If your organisation is considered as a taxable person until Title III, articles 9-10 of the Council Directive 2006/112/EC, a VAT identification number is required. If your organisation is not considered as a taxable person, seven (7%) percent German VAT will be added to the invoice.

### Reviewing a Competition Application Status

An NPC/NF can check the status of their competition application request on the *Competition Requests* page (Competition Management -> Competition Approvals -> Powerlifting).

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.5-competition-approval-wppo-status.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Status">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.5: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Status</figcaption>
</figure>

The competition’s approval status will remain as *New* until WPPO has reviewed the application. If WPPO determine the application is complete, the approval status will appear as *Approved*; if it is incomplete and missing information, the approval status will be changed to *Incomplete* and a message appear in the application.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.6-competition-approval-wppo-incomplete-request.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Incomplete Request">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.6: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Incomplete Request</figcaption>
</figure>

Once the update has been made by the NPC/NF and WPPO accepts the application, the approval status will be appear as *Approved* and will be uploaded to the WPPO calendar.

Once the competition is approved, WPPO will appoint a Technical Delegate and the contact person will be information. Any additional appointments such as Classifiers or Educators will also be completed.

### Submitting an Expression of Interest to Host International Classification

As international classification may only take place at WPPO recognised competitions, the NPC/NF must first apply for the approval of the competition where the international classification will take place. Once an application has been made, the NPC/NF can then apply to host international classification. This can be done by selecting *Classification Request* next to the application form. This tab will only appear once the competition application has been created.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.7-competition-approval-wppo-international-classification.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - International Classification">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.7: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - International Classification</figcaption>
</figure>

The NPC/NF must add the required additional information to request international classification such as:
- Sport Class
- Estimated Number of Athletes to be Classified
- Arrival Date for Classification
- Classification Dates
- Departure Date for Classification
  
Please note, the system will not allow an NPC/NF to save the request until all of the mandatory information has been input.

### Submitting an Expression of Interest to Host Educational Courses

Hosting an approved competition provides an excellent opportunity to host educational courses for classifiers, coaches and/or technical officials concurrently. Once an application to host an approved competition has been made, the NPC/NF can then apply to host educational courses. This can be done by selecting *Course Request* next to the application form. This tab will only appear once the competition application has been created.

<figure>
    <img class="screenshot" src="_img/figures/6.8-competition-approval-wppo-educational-courses.png" alt="WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Educational Courses">
    <figcaption>Figure 6.8: WPPO Competition Approval Requests - Educational Courses</figcaption>
</figure>

The NPC/NF must add the required additional information to request educational courses such as:
- Course Type
- Estimated Number of Participants by Course
- Arrival Date for Courses
- Course Dates
- Departure Date for Courses
