docs/introduction/structure.md, before:

# Structure
<!-- TODO:
1. Correct links to other page & enable link in _sidebar.md
-->
The current chapter describes the general objective of this manual, its different existing versions and structure as well as briefly summarizes the history of SDMS development.

The second chapter explains how to get an account for SDMS, how to access this central IPC database, the navigation through the application, the menu bars, general usages of search forms, and buttons appearing on several pages. Please read this chapter if you are not experienced with high security applications in general or with SDMS in specific.

General requirements and regulations of registration and licensing are outlined in chapter three reflecting the cover letter and fact sheets which are annually sent around to the IPC registered main contact persons of the NPCs.

In all following chapters (5 - 9) beginning with the initialization of SDMS (chapter four), each main menu item of SDMS is considered. The menu sub-structure is reflected by the respective chapter structure for easy navigation and reference.

An exact step-for-step instruction for registration of athletes (chapter five) and license application and payment (chapter six) supports the user to fulfil the requirements and follow the process efficiently.

Chapters seven includes the processes related to hosting an IPC competition, in particular regarding application of competition approval. The application produces a set of customisable reports for overview of the stored data. These reports are described in chapter 9.

For consistent numbering, chapter 4 is left out of this document. These assist IPC users with initialisation of the system and competition scheduling.

At the end, some chapters in this document's appendix cover a glossary, related documents, forms, and flow charts which the various chapters and sections of this guide refer to and are especially important for National Paralympic Committees.

Commit message:

Add screenshot for layout and functionalities section

docs/introduction/structure.md, after:

# Structure

[Structure](#structure) describes the general objective of this manual, its different existing versions and structure as well as briefly summarizes the history of SDMS development.

[SDMS Website, Layout and Functionalities](layout-and-functionalities/access.md) explains how to get an account for SDMS, how to access this central IPC database, the navigation through the application, the menu bars, general usages of search forms, and buttons appearing on several pages. Please read this chapter if you are not experienced with high security applications in general or with SDMS in specific.

General requirements and regulations of registration and licensing are outlined in [IPC Licensing Programme](ipc-licensing-programme/intention.md) reflecting the cover letter and fact sheets which are annually sent around to the IPC registered main contact persons of the NPCs.

In the following chapters beginning with the initialization of SDMS (chapter four), each main menu item of SDMS is considered in all following chapters:

- [Participants (Athletes & Guides)](participants/registration-and-update.md)
- [License Management](license-management/introduction.md)
- [Competition Management](competition-management/approval-management.md)
- [Reports](reports/classification-report.md)

The menu sub-structure is reflected by the respective chapter structure for easy navigation and reference.

[Participants (Athletes & Guides)](participants/registration-and-update.md) describes an exact step-for-step instruction for registration of athletes and [License Management](license-management/introduction.md) supports the user to fulfil the requirements and follow the process of license application and payment efficiently.

[Competition Management](competition-management/approval-management.md) includes the processes related to hosting an IPC competition, in particular regarding application of competition approval. The application produces a set of customisable reports for overview of the stored data. These reports are described in [Reports](reports/classification-report.md).
