docs/help/athlete-registration-and-licensing-fact-sheet.md, before:

# Athlete Registration & Licensing Fact Sheet

## Athlete Registration and Licence

Athletes must be registered in the Sport Data Management System (SDMS) to be eligible to be licensed and internationally classified.

There is no cost to register an athlete in the SDMS. All registered athletes will be assigned a unique identification code, the SDMS ID, which will remain with the athlete for the duration of his/her career and will be included on all athlete documentation.

Athletes must be licensed in the SDMS to have their results eligible for recognition for official rankings and as record-breaking performances.

An athlete will be considered licensed once their NPC/NSF has applied for a season licence in one sport and the licence package fee payment has been confirmed by the IPC. All licensed athletes will be assigned a season licence number for the respective sport.

Should an athlete retire from competition, it is the responsibility of his/her NPC/NSF to officially declare their retirement by cancelling the athlete registration in the SDMS and notifying the IPC in writing.

## Athlete Participation

At the Paralympic Games, World Championships and Regional Championships and some specific World Para Sport Recognised Competitions all athletes and guide runners must be licensed to compete. This requirement will be included in the qualification guides of these competitions. Further requirements for eligibility to compete like an additional licensing deadline will be outlined in these guides if applicable.

At other World Para Sport Recognised Competitions only athletes that are licensed may have their results recognised.

## Rankings

The following matrix outlines by ranking type the licensing and sport class status requirements:

| **List Name**                                                             | **License Required** | **Sport Class Status Required** |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| Official World Rankings List (Jan – Dec)                                  | Yes                  | R, C                            |
| Official Regional Rankings List (Jan – Dec)                               | Yes                  | R, C                            |
| Annual Recorded Best Performances (Jan – Dec)                             | Yes                  | N, R, C                         |
| Minimum Qualification Standard (MQS) Lists<span class="asterisk">*</span> | Yes                  | (N), R, C                       |

<p class="footnote">
    <small>*by relevant competition (Start Date – End Date of Qualification Period)</small>
</p>

*If a licensed athlete with a New “N” sport class status is internationally classified and receives a Review “R” or Confirmed “C” sport class status **prior to the end of the season**, the athlete’s performances during that season will be included in the official rankings.*

*If a licensed athlete with a New “N” sport class status is internationally classified and receives a Review “R” or Confirmed “C” sport class status prior to the end of the qualification period, the athlete’s performances during that qualification period will be included in the Minimum Qualification Standard (MQS) List for the relevant competition.*

*Other World Para Sport rules and regulations might have additional impact on the recognition of results, e.g. re-classification of an athlete into a new class. It is recommended to consult the specific rules of each sport for these additional conditions.*

## Records

Athletes must have a licence and have a Confirmed “C” or Review “R” fixed date sport class status to be eligible for recognition of a record breaking performance.

| **List Name**                          | **License Required** | **Sport Class Status Required** |
| :------------------------------------- | :------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| Official World Record                  | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Regional Record               | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Paralympic Record             | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official World Championships Record    | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Regional Championships Record | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Regional Games Record         | Yes                  | C (R)                           |

<p class="footnote">
    <small>(R): Review “R” fixed date sport class status</small>
</p>

*If a record breaking performance is set by an athlete with a New “N” or Review “R” sport class status at a World Para Sport Recognised competition, the UNPC has six (6) weeks in Athletics, Powerlifting, Shooting, or Swimming, respectively, after the end of the competition to present the athlete for an international classification assessment. The record breaking performance will be recognised if the outcome of the athlete’s classification assessment validates the original sport class and he/she is allocated a Confirmed “C” or Review “R” fixed date sport class status.*

## Classification

In any World Para Sport Recognised Competition where international classification is available, licensed athletes will have scheduling priority over registered athletes.

## Qualification

For each World Para Sport Recognised Competition with qualification criteria, the respective World Para Sport will outline the specific eligibility conditions that athletes are required to meet to participate in that competition, including nationality, Minimum Qualification Standards, international classification sport status, athletes licensing requirements, etc.

Commit message:

Add athlete reg. & licensing sheet - winter sports

docs/help/athlete-registration-and-licensing-fact-sheet.md, after:

# Athlete Registration & Licensing Fact Sheet

## Summer Sports

### Athlete Registration and Licence

Athletes must be registered in the Sport Data Management System (SDMS) to be eligible to be licensed and internationally classified.

There is no cost to register an athlete in the SDMS. All registered athletes will be assigned a unique identification code, the SDMS ID, which will remain with the athlete for the duration of his/her career and will be included on all athlete documentation.

Athletes must be licensed in the SDMS to have their results eligible for recognition for official rankings and as record-breaking performances.

An athlete will be considered licensed once their NPC/NSF has applied for a season licence in one sport and the licence package fee payment has been confirmed by the IPC. All licensed athletes will be assigned a season licence number for the respective sport.

Should an athlete retire from competition, it is the responsibility of his/her NPC/NSF to officially declare their retirement by cancelling the athlete registration in the SDMS and notifying the IPC in writing.

### Athlete Participation

At the Paralympic Games, World Championships and Regional Championships and some specific World Para Sport Recognised Competitions all athletes and guide runners must be licensed to compete. This requirement will be included in the qualification guides of these competitions. Further requirements for eligibility to compete like an additional licensing deadline will be outlined in these guides if applicable.

At other World Para Sport Recognised Competitions only athletes that are licensed may have their results recognised.

### Rankings

The following matrix outlines by ranking type the licensing and sport class status requirements:

| **List Name**                                                             | **License Required** | **Sport Class Status Required** |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| Official World Rankings List (Jan – Dec)                                  | Yes                  | R, C                            |
| Official Regional Rankings List (Jan – Dec)                               | Yes                  | R, C                            |
| Annual Recorded Best Performances (Jan – Dec)                             | Yes                  | N, R, C                         |
| Minimum Qualification Standard (MQS) Lists<span class="asterisk">*</span> | Yes                  | (N), R, C                       |

<p class="footnote">
    <small>*by relevant competition (Start Date – End Date of Qualification Period)</small>
</p>

*If a licensed athlete with a New “N” sport class status is internationally classified and receives a Review “R” or Confirmed “C” sport class status **prior to the end of the season**, the athlete’s performances during that season will be included in the official rankings.*

*If a licensed athlete with a New “N” sport class status is internationally classified and receives a Review “R” or Confirmed “C” sport class status prior to the end of the qualification period, the athlete’s performances during that qualification period will be included in the Minimum Qualification Standard (MQS) List for the relevant competition.*

*Other World Para Sport rules and regulations might have additional impact on the recognition of results, e.g. re-classification of an athlete into a new class. It is recommended to consult the specific rules of each sport for these additional conditions.*

### Records

Athletes must have a licence and have a Confirmed “C” or Review “R” fixed date sport class status to be eligible for recognition of a record breaking performance.

| **List Name**                          | **License Required** | **Sport Class Status Required** |
| :------------------------------------- | :------------------- | :------------------------------ |
| Official World Record                  | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Regional Record               | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Paralympic Record             | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official World Championships Record    | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Regional Championships Record | Yes                  | C (R)                           |
| Official Regional Games Record         | Yes                  | C (R)                           |

<p class="footnote">
    <small>(R): Review “R” fixed date sport class status</small>
</p>

*If a record breaking performance is set by an athlete with a New “N” or Review “R” sport class status at a World Para Sport Recognised competition, the UNPC has six (6) weeks in Athletics, Powerlifting, Shooting, or Swimming, respectively, after the end of the competition to present the athlete for an international classification assessment. The record breaking performance will be recognised if the outcome of the athlete’s classification assessment validates the original sport class and he/she is allocated a Confirmed “C” or Review “R” fixed date sport class status.*

### Classification

In any World Para Sport Recognised Competition where international classification is available, licensed athletes will have scheduling priority over registered athletes.

### Qualification

For each World Para Sport Recognised Competition with qualification criteria, the respective World Para Sport will outline the specific eligibility conditions that athletes are required to meet to participate in that competition, including nationality, Minimum Qualification Standards, international classification sport status, athletes licensing requirements, etc.

## Winter Sports

### Athlete Registration and Licence

Athletes must be registered in the Sport Data Management System (SDMS) to be eligible to be licensed and internationally classified.

There is no cost to register an athlete in the SDMS. All registered athletes will be assigned a unique identification code, the SDMS ID, which will remain with the athlete for the duration of his/her career and that will be included on all athlete documentation.

Athletes must be licensed in the SDMS to have their results eligible for recognition for Official Rankings.

An athlete will be considered licensed once their NPC/NSF has applied for a season licence in one sport and the licence package fee payment has been confirmed by the IPC. All licensed athletes will be assigned a season licence number for the respective sport.

Should an athlete retire from competition, it is the responsibility of his/her NPC/NSF to officially declare their retirement by cancelling the athlete registration in the SDMS and notifying the IPC in writing.

### Athlete Participation

At all WPAS/WPSB/WPNS Recognised Competitions all athletes and guides must be licensed to compete. This requirement will be included in the qualification guides of these competitions. Further requirements for eligibility to compete like an additional licensing deadline will be outlined in these guides if applicable.

### Qualification

For each IPC Recognised Competition with a qualification criteria, the IPC will outline the specific eligibility conditions that athletes are required to meet to participate in that competition, including nationality, Minimum Qualification Standards, International Classification Sport Status, Athletes Licensing requirements, etc.
